Notes on adhd

Main issue
	Lack of action
	Lack of planning
	Hyperfocus to fix
	Inability to do most important thing - focus on second most important


School/Work mode
	Minimal engagement for majority of school year. Woerk just enough to stay out of trouble
	Not causing problems in school, but not much effort during year
	Eventual short period of high effort (always pre deadline i.e. cannot put in high effort early then relax)


Private life mode:
	Always last minute e.g. taxes, 30 November, 9pm, 10pm 
	Avoidance of planning for no reason. 
		Booking camping - no reason not to book earlier
		Not checking post - think of it every day hen at the door, but avoid it for months
	Paying frequent fines for late payments (more under control now, due to system)
	Very open to extreme options:
		Living in workshop, rather than finding place to live
		Living in caravan while waiting for possible apartment - not so bad, but even that wasn't well planned
			Bought caravan 2 weeks before end of lease, no driving licence, no reservation, no research, no idea if legal
			Then holiday in france, before moving straight into caravan
		Unpermitted AirBnB
	Stresses tend to build up to breaking point, then suddenly do everything


Overall issue:
	Inability to act until entirely necessary
		Eventual motivators to act:
			panic
			fear
			embarassment

Self assessment of personality:
	Lazy


Positive:
	Have been able to cope with running AirBnb. Mainly reactive work.


Sometimes inability to act even in presence of strong fear:
	Expectation of losing job not enough to motivate work
	Tax dept trouble. Not completing taxes for years. Result - large fines
	example: Company in ireland never shut down, taxes not done
	Immigration fears: Fear of work permit & deportation not enough to motivate job search



Side-effects on personality:
	Avoidance of relationships with authority figures
		Need to "hide" when non productive leaves relationships with authority figures at a minimum level
		At school this works. Minimum work to not get much hassle, but no real engagement during the year.
		Self learning during school. Almost nothing comes from teaching.
		Relationships with authority figures in work are uncomfortable due to deceit necessary to operate in "non working / hyperfocus" manner
		Depression due to need to spend time looking like working, while not working
	Lying
		Becomes a way of life
		Extreme lying is an option
			Inventing jobs to fill CV
			Pretending to be someone else as a reference
			Family think I work 







POTENTIAL HEALTH ISSUES:
Extreme persistent stress
Lack of ability to plan long term
Constant state of vigilance (stress) in work, in attempt to not be found out during non working


EXAMPLES OF PRIVATE LIFE ISSUES
	Persistent betreibungs
	Inability to find own apartment, due to betreibungs 


EXAMPLES OF WORK ISSUES
Lack of overall productivity:
	Few working hours per week
	Working at last minute means tasks which are easier than anticipated are not completed sooner i.e. a 5 day task will always take minimum 4.5 days

Working in spare time:
	If deadline is next Monday:
		Avoid working during week
		Think of working during first part of weekend, avoid other weekend plans to leave time to work, but don't actually work
		Start working on task Sunday 9pm
	Result:
		Stress during work week, due to avoiding being seen not working
		Stress of procrastination during most of weekend
		Potential inability to complete task, if unforeseen problem needing input from others
		Loss of spare time

Inability to progress:
	Unreliable and underproductive
	Avoidance of overly close relationships with those above